= EsTractor: Simplified data extracton from Elasticsearch

home :: https://rubygems.org/gems/es_tractor
dev  :: https://github.com/utilum/es_tractor/tree/dev
bugs :: https://github.com/utilum/es_tractor/issues
rdoc :: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/es_tractor

== DESCRIPTION:

Just to search, you know, Elasticsearch.

Minimal, simple, DRY DSL for searching Elasticsearch.

Takes one shallow hash argument and translates it to an elaborate one passed
on to elasticsearch-api. The price: narrower options. The gain: succinctness.
For example, a root <tt>:range</tt> is always a boolean filter and always 
includes the edges:

  tractor = Client.new
  opts = { range: { timestamp: ['now-5m', 'now'] } }

  tractor.search(opts) # => sends the following to Ealsticsearch:
  {
    "query": {
      "bool": {
        "filter": [
          {
            "range": {
              "timestamp": {
                "gte":"now-5m",
                "lte":"now"
              }
            }
          }
        ],
        "must": [],
      }
    }
  }


== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* Subset of Search APIs: count, fields, search, sort, aggregations.
* Supports most metrics aggregations without optional parameters.
* Query builder translates a simplified Hash argument into boolean
  filters and aggregations.

* TODO:
  * Add aggregations:
    * Bucket
    * Nesting
    * Optional parameters
  * Add Search APIs:
    * Scroll
  * Tests:
    * Integration against an Elasticsearch cluster
    * Integration against current and previous Elasticsearch major versions
  * Extraction: Aggregation to flat records (separate project?).

== SYNOPSIS:

  include EsTractor
  tractor = Client.new

  tractor.count
    # => (Integer) number of documents on the server

  tractor.count(term: { my_field: 'my precise term' })
    # => (Integer) number of documents where my_field == 'my precise term'

  tractor = Client.new true
  tractor.search(size: 1, term: { my_field: 'my precise term' }) # =>
  {
    "took"=>29,
    "timed_out"=>false,
    "_shards"=>{"total"=>542, "successful"=>542, "failed"=>0},
    "hits"=> {
      "total"=>279271,
      "max_score"=>0.0,
      "hits"=> [
        {
          "_index"=>"my_index",
          "_id"=>"bc596ff2-955b-11e7-a7d2-001ed3f963a9",
          "_score"=>0.0,
          "_source"=> {
            "my_field"=>"my precise term",
            "timestamp"=>"2017-09-09 12:38:09.263",
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  }

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Ruby 2.0+

Some environment variables are expected:
* ES_TRACTOR_ELASTICSEARCH_HOST
* ES_TRACTOR_ELASTICSEARCH_INDEX

== INSTALL:

  $ gem install es_tractor

Or in your Gemfile:
  gem 'es_tractor'

== DEVELOPERS:

After checking out the source, run:

  $ rake newb

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests, and
generate the RDoc.

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2017 Oz Shelach

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
